### Browser Wars
  In 1993 University of Illinois student Mark Andreessen and his friends created the first web browser called “Mosaic” and made it free to download for the public. At this time almost 90% of computers were running on Microsoft and Microsoft was already a software giant so everybody wanted to work in Microsoft and Microsoft was ruling in the stock market. On the other hand, James E Clark co-founder of Netscape saw the Mosaic browser and had his eyes on it. He contacted Mark Andreessen and his friends and offered them a job in Netscape, Silicon Valley. In Oct 1994 Netscape’s new browser “Navigator” finally hit the streets and it was a great success. Netscape stock market value for higher than Microsoft after the success of the Navigator. By seeing this Bill Gates now wanted to create a web browser that could beat Netscape’s Navigator so that Microsoft can again rule in business. There was a browser war between Microsoft and Netscape. In June 1995 Microsoft and Netscape had a controversial meeting where nobody knows what happened except those who attend the meeting. In Aug 1995 Microsoft launched its new web browser “Internet Explorer” to take on Netscape’s Navigator. Slowly Internet Explorer was growing and Microsoft made Internet Explorer free with windows for the public. Now everyone was using Internet Explorer, By Sept 1997 browser war was over and Microsoft had become a triumph. Soon Netscape lost its market value and was in complete loss and in 1998 Netscape was brought by AOL.
### Internet Search
The mid-1990s was the era of the internet and computer geeks where so many new things were launched by so many great minds. Many new things came into the streets at this time like web browsers, search engines, and E-commerce websites. In 1994 two Stanford university geeks Jerry Yang and David Filo launches the first web search engine called “Yahoo”. But Yahoo was not used by many people since the yahoo search engine had only plain text and there were no flashy ads on the website so, in 1995, Yahoo adds flashy ads and news on their website, and soon after that more people started using and it gained profit. In 1996 Yahoo got competitors and one strong competitor was Excite, Joe Kraus was the founder of Excite. At the same time, two students from Stanford University Larry Page and Sergey Brin developed a search engine and named it “Google”. For the first time in 1996, they developed a search engine that used a search algorithm called Page Rank. Page rank determined a website's relevance by the number of pages and the importance of those pages that linked back to the original site. The domain name www.google.com was registered on September 15, 1997, and the company was incorporated on September 4, 1998.<br>
### .Com Bubble
In July 1994, Jeff Bezos founded Amazon; the first E-commerce website. Amazon went public in May 1997. In the beginning, Amazon was only selling books but later it expanded to sell software, video games, toys, etc. Amazon also started online credit card transactions, they used public-key cryptography technique to encrypt the customer’s credit card information and it was a huge success for Amazon. During the same time in Sept 1995, Pierre Omidyar founded eBay; an online auction and shopping website. As soon as he launched people started using eBay, the first item auctioned and sold on eBay was a broken laser pointer for $14. It soon became the first online auction site allowing person-to-person transactions, and its popularity boomed. At the end of the 1990s, there were so many other websites on the internet like pets.com, dating websites, etc. These websites existed only for some years and were vanished thereafter as in April 2000 the stock market fell. After the NASDAQ fell, all the small companies were in complete loss and shut down companies and were vanished. Only the companies which made a name and gained profit in the stock market remained like Microsoft, Amazon, eBay, Google, Yahoo, etc.  
### Social Networks          
At the beginning of the 2000s, a new era of web began that is web 2.0, where music streaming and social networking websites were developed. In 1999 a music website called “Napster” was developed by Northeastern University student Shawn Fanning, Napster used a peer-to-peer network to share songs among people. It was very popular among college students and it was also the first app where people were socializing. Due to copyright and other issues, Napster was shut down in 2001. In 2004 a news website “Digg” was started by Kevin Rose, Owen Byrne, Ron Gorodetzky, and Jay Adelson. The site's main function was to let users discover, share and recommend web content. Members of the community could submit a webpage for general consideration. Other members could vote that page up "Digg" or down "bury". The end product was a series of wide-ranging, constantly updated lists of popular and trending content from around the Internet, aggregated by a social network. Digg was very popular among the people in the early 2000’s.<br> 
### YouTube
In 2005 an online video sharing and social media platform called “YouTube” was launched by Steve Chen, Chad Hurley, and Jawed Karim. YouTube was a platform where people can stream videos that are posted by other people, this feature made YouTube popular among people. Soon after one year in 2006 YouTube was brought by Google. In Feb 2004, a Harvard University dropout Mark Zuckerberg launched a social networking website called “Facebook”. Facebook is a social networking website where people create their profiles and can share their information, photos, videos, and news with other people and stay connected with many people online. This was something new and soon became popular among people. Many other companies became popular like My Space, Winamp, Craigslist, Wikipedia, etc. <br>
           Finally, the base for all these web-based software technologies and tools was the internet that was created in the 1950s, which changed the world no one could have ever dreamt of that and the change is still not over, it is yet to come.

