### ARPA
During the 1950s there was a cold war between the USA and the Soviet Union. In Oct 1957, Soviet Union launched Sputnik. To take over the Soviet Union in space, In Nov 1957 US President D Eisenhower created ARPA (Advanced Research Project Agency). ARPA was in charge of space programs (But afterward space program got its agency called NASA). For this space program, there was a requirement for communication with the space shuttle, and this required a communication network which we call the internet today. In 1960, a seminal idea for the internet was envisioned by psychologist   J. C. R. Licklider, Professor at MIT. At this time computer networks and communication were at their embryonic stages. Shortly thereafter, At MIT a graduate student Leonard Kleinrock began applying queuing theory for data transmission. Similar to queuing of postcards in the post office, Dr. Leonard Kleinrock showed how data would queue at the nodes of communication. In this way, he could determine the overall speed of the network. He also showed how to speed up the network using two methods: demand access and distributed control.
### Circuit Switch Network
In the 1950s, the telephone network was becoming popular which used to “Circuit Switch Network”. In-circuit switching network nodes establish a dedicated communication channel through the network before the nodes may communicate. Now everyone across the country used telephone from small homes to big companies and telephone was also major communication during wars. But there was a problem in the circuit-switched network and telephones if the connection path between the telephone was broken the call is lost and it became a matter of national security for the US government since the US was at war with the Soviet Union and the US feared nuclear attack from the Soviet Union. If the telephone line was broken the US had nothing to counter-attack on enemies. So, the US wanted to build an indestructible network. 
### Packet Switching Network
Dr. Paul Baran was hired to build a network that should be indestructible. Dr. Paul Baran thought of building a fish net-like network, but they didn’t know how to build one. For this fish net-like structure, Dr. Paul Baran came up with a notion called “Hot Potato Routing”, the idea was simple if one of the communication paths is broken the data would find an alternate path to reach the destination. But for hot potato routing to apply, they had to chop the data into pieces. By borrowing the idea from the telegraph Paul Baran found a way to slice data into pieces and he called it message blocks, later he named it “Packets”. Here each packet was like a postcard that has to and from address. Packets have a header that contains the source and destination addresses and it hops through the network in its dedicated path that is it can take any path to reach the destination. Since the nodes decided which path to take it was called “Packet Switching Network”.

### IMP (Interface Message Processor)
<P>By 1962, there was enough theory that a viable computer network could be built. During 1965 time-sharing computers came where people sit at the terminal and type in questions and they would get a response in two seconds. The first computer network stem came from ARPA scientist Robert Taylor. In 1966 Robert Taylor had enough idea to build a computer network, He wanted to communicate between two time-sharing computers having separate terminals at research centers across the country. But he knew computers could not communicate with each other directly, so Taylor had to communicate terminal to terminal to work on a different computer. Taylor also knew one terminal would suffice if all the computers were shared in a common network. Taylor wanted to build a network where one terminal could communicate with all machines rather than having a separate terminal for each machine.</P>
<P>To build this Taylor recruited Lawrence Roberts for this job. Lawrence Roberts had built the world’s first experimental connection between two computers at MIT Lincoln Lab. But Roberts wasn’t sure about building network connections between mainframe computers. One way was to link them in the chain but it would create problems at the software level. Later Roberts was told by an engineer to use minicomputers for connecting mainframe computers. Here each mainframe computer had a minicomputer that was used for connecting with each mainframe computer. Roberts had everything to build the network, but who will build him minicomputer? He approached telephone companies but they did not believe in this. </P>
  <P>In 1968, Roberts got engineers to build the minicomputer. A small Cambridge, MA company called BBN was willing to try to build a minicomputer. Frank Heart headed the BBN team. ARPA used 4 mainframe computers to connect with each other. Mainframe computers that were used in connecting were SIGMA 7 at UCLA, SDS 940 at Stanford Research Institute, IBM 360/75 at UCSB, and PDP 10 at the University of Utah. BBN built the minicomputer called IMP (Interface Message Processor) for ARPA. UCLA was on deadline to write software for Sigma 7 that could connect with IMP. They choose graduate students to write software. Stephen Cracker with other students wrote the code to join UCLA computer to the IMP. Now, the BBN team was facing problems like how to stop packets from circulating forever? How do packets know to stop at their destination? And overflow problems. But they overcame the problems and in Sept 1969, first IMP arrived at UCLA, By the end of 1969 all 4 computers were interconnected and this network was known as ARPANET.</P>
 <h3>E-mail</h3>
 <p>In April 1971, the ARPANET had 18 mainframes computer interconnected across the country. Robert Metcalf was an MIT graduate student who connected MIT computers to ARPANET. At first, there wasn’t much to do in ARPANET beyond transferring data files among its network. Then a new capability was added, a killer application called E-mail was added which changed the way of communication around the world. Reymond Tomlinson invented the E-mail and he also gave meaning to the ‘@’ symbol. In Oct 1972, ARPANET created the first Sci-fi movie using the internet. Soon computer networks were growing Robert Metcalf found out there were 19 different features to work on the internet and soon there were LANs and WANs. LAN (Local Area Networks) which contains all the connections in one building or organization and WAN (Wide Area Networks) which are connected between organizations. But each LAN or organization used its protocols for communications. Because of this, there were difficulties in communicating between people. So, there was a need for a common protocol.</p>
 <h3> TCP /IP</h3>
  In 1973, Dr. Vinton Cerf and Dr. Robert Kahn both developed procedures and rules for message passing and communication between networks called TCP/IP. TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol) enabled all networks to interconnect since all networks used the same set of protocols. TCP/IP used the concept of the gateway where all networks were connected to this gateway to communicate. TCP/IP also had a reliable data transfer service, if the packets were lost and there is no acknowledgment from the receiver for those packets the sender would resend those packets until it receives an acknowledgment from the receiver. This feature made TCP/IP common protocol for all networks. In 1983 there were many different protocols created by others but, TCP/IP was adopted as a universal standard marking a common network for interconnected networks.
  <h3> WWW </h3>
   In 1989, Tim Berners Lee from CERN research institute, Switzerland came up with an idea called “WWW (World Wide Web)”, to bring everything under a common roof that is under WWW. He introduced fundamental technologies like HTML, URI, and HTTP. He also wrote the first webpage called WorldWideWeb.html, this webpage contained information about www and how to create our webpage under www using HTML. On June 9, 1992, President George Bush signed the bill passed by Congress making the internet public. In 1992 there were only 50 web pages on the internet.
